Okay so,  this is session 1 of our Apache Kafka series.
Today's topic: Kafka Architecture — Brokers, Topics, Partitions, Offsets.
Dekho, samjho yeh carefully,  chalo, pehle kuch facts sunte hain.
Fact number 1: Kafka is just a message queue, like RabbitMQ.
Fact number 2: Kafka guarantees exactly-once delivery out of the box.
Fact number 3: More partitions always means better performance.
Sab suna?
Accha.
Ab dhyan se suno,  YEH SAB GALAT HAI.
Haan, galat.
Aur main tumhe exactly bataunga ki kyun.
Kafka is NOT a message queue.
It's a distributed commit log.
Exactly-once requires idempotent producers AND transactional consumers.
And too many partitions , actually HURT performance.
Let me explain each one.